[DOCS] Updating "Manage detection alerts" topic (#666)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/alerts-ui-manage.asciidoc

[[alerts-ui-manage]]
[role="xpack"]
== Manage detection alerts

The Detections page displays all <<detection-alert-def, detection alerts>>.
From the Alerts table, you can filter alerts, change an alert's status, and start
investigating and analyzing alerts in Timeline.

TIP: From Timeline, you can <<cases-ui-open, create cases>> to track issues and
share information with colleagues.

[float]
[[detection-view-and-filter-alerts]]
=== View and filter detection alerts
The Detections page offers a variety of ways for you to organize and triage detection alerts as you investigate suspicious events. You can:

* Filter for a specific rule in the KQL bar (for example,
`signal.rule.name :"SSH (Secure Shell) from the Internet"`).

NOTE: KQL autocomplete for `.siem-signals-*` indices is available on the
*Detections* and *Rule details* pages, and in Timeline when either `All` or
`Detection alerts` is selected.

* Use the date and time filter to select a time range that you’re interested in exploring. By default, this filter is set to search through the last 24 hours.

> * View detection alerts in the *Rule details* page (click

Reviewer: `View detection alerts in the *Rule details* page` could be updated to show that the Rule Details page is specifically showing the alerts that are generated by that specific rule

*Manage detection rules* -> rule name in the *All rules* table).
* Use the *Stack by* dropdown in the Detection alert trend histogram to select specific parameters for which to visualize the individual counts. For example, if you choose to stack by `signal.rule.name`, the histogram will display the total counts by alert name.

> * Augment the results shown in the Alerts table to include alerts from building blocks or only show alerts from indicator match rules. By default, building block alerts are excluded from the Alerts table. Opting to include them expands the results and displays building block alerts alongside regular detection alerts.

Reviewer: @rylnd @shimonmodi this is an interesting one. So we are filtering the alerts on signal.rule.threat_mapping - which I believe exists in all indicator match rules. Are we anticipating a future scenario in which threat match rules is a sub-category of indicator match rules, where `threat_mapping` exists only on indicator matches of threat type? Unless I am mistaken, we are using the two concepts of indicator match and threat match interchangeably at the moment, which could create confusion for the end users.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/additional-filters.png[Shows multiple ways to filter information]

[float]
[[customize-the-alerts-table]]
=== Customize the Alerts table
Use the icons in the upper left corner of the Alerts table to customize displayed columns and to view the table in full screen mode.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-table-columns-and-size.gif[width=100%][height=100%][Demo that shows how to select the customize display icon and full screen icon]

Click the *Customize Event Renderers* icon to enable event renderers within the Alerts table. When enabled, event renderers show relevant details that provide more context to the event. For example, if you enable the *Flow* Event Renderer, the Alerts table shows relevant details describing the flow of the data between a source and destination. These details could include hosts, ports, protocol, direction, duration, amount transferred, process, and geographic location.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/customize-event-renderer.png[Shows the Event Renderer icon, 200]

> All event renderers are disabled by default. To pivot between event views in the Alerts table, you can enable individual event renderers or click *Enable all*. Closing *Customize Event Renderers* page saves your configurations.

Reviewer: I believe that `pivot` is a loaded word in the context of threat hunting / event renderers where the action of pivoting means that a piece of information related to a threat is utilized to gain further insight on the stability of the system. I would recommend more neutral verbiage such as `to switch between event views in the Alerts table`

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/customize-event-renderer-page.png[Shows the Event Renderer page]

[float]
[[view-alert-details]]
=== View alert details
To inspect an alert further, click the *View details* icon from the Alerts table.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/view-alert-details.png[Shows the Event Renderer icon, 200]

The Alert details flyout appears and offers several options for viewing alert details:

* *Summary*: Shows details about the alert. If the alert has been enriched with indicator match fields, the *threat summary* section also displays on the *Summary* tab and provides the details for the following fields:
** `matched.field`
** `matched.type`
** `source (threat.indicator.provider)``
** `first_seen`
** `last_seen`

> * *Threat Intel*: Shows the number of threat intelligence sources. If you you haven't enabled any, this tab displays the messaage `No Threat Intel Enrichment Found`.

Reviewer 2: Typo: 
```suggestion
* *Threat Intel*: Shows the number of threat intelligence sources. If you haven't enabled any, this tab displays the messaage `No Threat Intel Enrichment Found`.
```

Reviewer 2: I think it may be more accurate to describe these as "indicator enrichments" or "matched indicators," or something to that effect; "intelligence sources" conveys (to me) a broader idea than what we're displaying on this tab. I don't know if we have standardized this language.

@MikePaquette @shimonmodi any thoughts here? The [Enrichment RFC](https://github.com/elastic/ecs/pull/1400) is currently describing these fields generally as "threat enrichments", of which "indicator rule match" may be a subtype.

Reviewer 3: @rylnd can you clarify what is actually displayed in that location?

Reviewer: what we are displaying is each item within the threat.indicator array on that specific alert. So we are displaying information copied over from the indicator document for each threat match on an alert. Chatted with Nastasha this morning and we agree with Ryland's comment, we will be updating this piece

Reviewer 3: Thanks @ecezalp  SGTM

> * *Threat Intel*: Shows the number of threat intelligence sources. If you you haven't enabled any, this tab displays the messaage `No Threat Intel Enrichment Found`.

Reviewer: there is a tiny typo on the word `message` that we should also fix

*Manage detection rules* and then click on a rule name in the All rules table. A new page showing the detailed view of the rule displays and alert details are stored in the Alerts table beneath the Detection alert trend histogram.
* Use the *Stack by* dropdown in the Detection alert trend histogram to select specific parameters for which to visualize the individual counts. For example, if you choose to stack by `signal.rule.name`, the histogram will display the total counts by alert name.
* Augment the results shown in the Alerts table to include alerts from building blocks or only show alerts from indicator match rules. By default, building block alerts are excluded from the Alerts table. Opting to include them expands the results and displays building block alerts alongside regular detection alerts.

NOTE: When updating alert results to also include building block alerts, the Security app searches the `.siem-signals-<Kibana space>` index for the `signal.rule.building_block_type` field. When looking for alerts created from indicator match rules, the app searches the same index for the `signal.rule.threat_mapping` field.

> [role="screenshot"]

Reviewer 4: So, IMO, we don't need this many arrows. I think we should just draw a box around the additional filter options and maybe the stack by drop-down. WDYT?

Author: Because of where the image is placed (after the last bullet), it might make more sense to _only_ highlight the **Additional Filters** drop down. That said, if we want to emphasize that the Trend histogram can be filtered too, it'd make sense to draw a box around the **Stack by** dropdown as well.

Author: Removing the arrows and only highlighting the **Additional Filters** dropdown to resolve this comment.

image::images/additional-filters.png[Shows multiple ways to filter information]

[float]
[[customize-the-alerts-table]]
=== Customize the Alerts table

> Use the icons in the upper left corner of the Alerts table to customize the columns you want displayed and to view the table in full screen mode.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use the icons in the upper left corner of the Alerts table to customize the columns you want displayed and to view the table in full-screen mode.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-table-columns-and-size.gif[width=100%][height=100%][Demo that shows how to select the customize display icon and full screen icon]

> Click the *Customize Event Renderers* icon to enable event renderers within the Alerts table. When enabled, event renderers show relevant details that provide more context to the event. For example, if you enable the *Flow* Event Renderer, the Alerts table shows relevant details describing the flow of the data between a source and destination. These details could include hosts, ports, protocol, direction, duration, amount transferred, process, and geographic location.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Click the *Customize Event Renderers* icon to enable event renderers within the Alerts table. When enabled, event renderers show relevant details that provide more context to the event. For example, if you enable the *Flow* Event Renderer, the Alerts table shows relevant details describing the data flow between a source and destination. These details include information such as hosts, ports, protocol, direction, duration, amount transferred, process, and geographic location.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/customize-event-renderer.png[Shows the Event Renderer icon, 200]

> All event renderers are disabled by default. To switch between event views in the Alerts table, you can enable individual event renderers or click *Enable all*. Closing *Customize Event Renderers* page saves your configurations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All event renderers are disabled by default. To switch between event views in the Alerts table, you can enable individual event renderers or click *Enable all*. Closing the *Customize Event Renderers* page saves your configurations.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/customize-event-renderer-page.png[Shows the Event Renderer page]

[float]
[[view-alert-details]]
=== View alert details

> To further inspect an alert, click the *View details* icon from the Alerts table.

Reviewer 4: I'm on the fence between "icon" and "button." I tend to think of icon as more of a representation of something, and button as something you can actually click or select.

Author: Agree with your definition of both - was just trying to stick to the terminology we're currently using across our docs. :) I'll change to "icon" to "button" in this sentence.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/view-alert-details.png[Shows the Event Renderer icon, 200]

The Alert details flyout appears and offers several options for viewing alert details:

* *Summary*: Offers an aggregated view of alert details. Alerts that have been enriched with `threat.indicator` data also display the *threat summary* section, which is an additional section located beneath the alert summary. In the *threat summary* section, you can view mapped data for the following `threat.indicator` subfields:
** `matched.field`
** `matched.type`
** `source (threat.indicator.provider)`
** `first_seen`
** `last_seen`

NOTE: If an alert has more than one threat, `threat.indicator` data is still aggregated under the *threat summary* section, but parsed out in the *Threat Intel* tab.

> * *Threat Intel*: Shows the number of matched intelligence sources and displays threats individually. Threats are organized by timestamp (the most recent threat alert is shown at the top and the oldest is at the bottom) and the available `threat.indicator` and `source.event` data is portrayed for each threat. If the alert has not been enriched with threat data the *Threat Intel* tab displays the message `No Threat Intel Enrichment Found` and provides a link to Threat Intel module documentation.

Reviewer: we could consider updating this one as `Shows the number of matched threats and displays them individually`

> * *Threat Intel*: Shows the number of matched threats and displays them individually. Threats are organized by timestamp (the most recent threat alert is shown at the top and the oldest is at the bottom) and the available `threat.indicator` and `source.event` data is portrayed for each threat. If the alert has not been enriched with threat data, the *Threat Intel* tab displays the message `No Threat Intel Enrichment Found` and provides a link to Threat Intel module documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* *Threat Intel*: Shows the number of matched threats and displays them individually. Threats appear in reverse chronological order, with the most recent alerts at the top. The `threat.indicator` and `source.event` data is displayed for each threat. If the alert has not been enriched with threat data, the *Threat Intel* tab displays the message "No Threat Intel Enrichment Found" and provides a link to Threat Intel module documentation.
```
